# 2019-08-14 Locate Object in Window

The overall goal of this stage is to expand the simple bot framework to support sensing the bots environment. The change last week already added the parts for acting on a window. This weeks expansion adds the functionality to read information from such a window so that the bot has all the information it needs to act. The information to extract includes locating objects as well as overall classification.

## Runtime Expenses for Screenshot Transfer

To allow the bot to read from the screenshot, we transfer the screenshot from the volatile host to the bot. In an early version of this transport, I reused the BMP image file decoding developed earlier on the bot side. So the bot would receive the screenshot as BMP encoded image file. I implemented a variant in which the data is sent encoded in base64. But I did not find a solution to decode from the base64 string to `Bytes` fast enough. The first base64 decoding function I experimented with was from `ivadzy/bbase64 1.1.1`. Then I tried the base64 decoding function from `danfishgold/base64-bytes 1.0.2`. With both of them, I saw more than five seconds of bot event processing time. When I just let it store the base64 string on the bot side, the duration dropped dramatically: In most cases, less than 300ms for an image with 1000x800 pixels.
I achieved a significant reduction of the time to process the bot event when completely removing base64 decoding and instead pack the pixel values into arrays of integers in the JSON.
Remember that processing times also depend on the used javascript engine. After switching to V8/puppeteer, we might find new/other variants to be faster.
